h2. Overview

This project provides algorithms written in Scala which are used in the bioinformatics domain.

Highlights so far
* generic (2D) dynamic programing algorithm (see net.gumbix.concdynpro.DynPro)
* Global, semi-local and local aligment (see net.gumbix.bioinf.string.alignment.Alignment)
* Multiple alignment (star algorithm, see net.gumbix.bioinf.string.alignment.MultipleAlignment)
* Pattern recognization with the Viterbi-algorithm (hidden markov model, see net.gumbix.concbioinf.hmm.Viterbi)
* RNA 2D struct viewer based on Nussinov algorithm (see net.gumbix.bioinf.struct.RNAStruct2DViewer)
* Greedy superstring algorithm for sequence assembly (see net.gumbix.bioinf.string.seq.GreedySuperstring)
* and many more...

h2. Getting Started

_More documentation will come soon._ Please refer to "project home page":http://www.mi.hs-mannheim.de/gumbel/en/forschung/scabio/ or the to the "wiki pages":https://github.com/markusgumbel/scalabioalg/wiki for more information. A good start is to read the preliminary "manual":http://www.mi.hs-mannheim.de/gumbel/files/scabio-manual.pdf or the generated scaladoc API documentation. See installation below where to find it.

h3. Requirements

* "GIT":http://git-scm.com/
* "Maven 2":http://maven.apache.org/

h3. Installation

The project uses Maven 2 as the build tool. Check out the project and run the Maven goal _mvn site_. This will generate all the relevant artifacts. The scaladoc can be found in ./target/site/index.html. More details are described int the "manual":http://www.mi.hs-mannheim.de/gumbel/files/scabio-manual.pdf.

h2. Mailing Lists

None yet. :-)

h2. History

The software was originally developed for a lecture on "bioinformatics":http://www.mi.hs-mannheim.de/gumbel/aktuelle-vorlesungen/bioinformatik-bim/. Thus, this software was mainly supposed to be for academic use. However, I believe that part of it might be of common interest. Let's see how this project relates to "Biojava":http://biojava.org/wiki/Main_Page and other projects like "bioscala":https://github.com/bioscala/bioscala.    